- [Instructor] Being issued an access token
is the first step for clients that need
to securely access a microservice.
Tokens are issued to a client after a series of calls
are orchestrated between the resource owner,
the client application and the authorization server.
The first part of this exchange is very important
because the resource owner authenticates
with the authorization server using their credentials.
Then the resource owner consents to the client,
accessing their protected resources.
This causes the authorization server to create
or mint an access token that is provided to the client.
If the access token is a reference token,
it must be stored at this point in time.
Let's highlight a few key points and advantages
of this exchange.
First, the microservice is not required
to store user credentials because authentication
is handled centrally by the authorization server.
The client never handles the credentials either
because they are only provided to the authorization server.
This prevents a password from being stolen from a client
that stores it.
It also avoids a lot of issues
with information confidentiality and integrity.
For example, if a client
uses the resource owners credentials,
the system cannot distinguish between the two of them.
This complicates how system actions can be attributed
to the end-user.
To understand the exact details of how tokens can be issued,
the OAuth two framework specifies four grant types.
We'll dive into the details of the two most commonly used
for microservices, the authorization code grant
and the client credentials grant.
Both grant types define HTTPS calls
to specific end points expected on the authorization server
that are used by the client in the process
of obtaining a token.
Before this takes place,
the client and it's a redirect URI are expected
to be registered with the authorization server.
Registration is completed by the developer
of the client application, using a registration form
in the developer portal.
Once the form is completed, a client ID and client secret
will be issued to the application.
The client's credentials in a redirect URI are used
by the authorization server to authenticate the client
and prevent against redirection attacks.
Once these prerequisites are satisfied,
clients can complete the sequence of HTTPS calls
for authorization flows, like the authorization code grant.
The flow starts when the resource owner
visits the client website within their browser.
The browser then redirects the client
to the authorization end point on the authorization server.
In the redirect, it passes a response type parameter
to indicate it's an authorization code grant.
It also passes the client ID, the redirect URI,
the requested scope and a state parameter
to protect against CSRF.
If the resource owner is not authenticated,
they will be prompted to supply their credentials
within a log in page provided by the authorization server,
which will be used to confirm their identity.
After being authenticated, they will be asked
to grant the client the requested permissions or scopes.
After they have granted permission via consent page provided
by the authorization server, the authorization server
will redirect the resource owner's browser back
to the client's redirect URI with an authorization code.
From there, the client will send an HTTP post
to the token endpoint on the authorization server
with the authorization code it received.
Other parameters like its client ID and client secret
will also be sent.
In the response to the post request,
the authorization server will supply the client
with an access token that can be used by the client
to access resources on the API.
Identity and access management platforms
will expose the necessary authorization and token end points
as part of their authorization server implementations.
These allow clients
to directly orchestrate authorization flows with the server.
Some IAM platforms we'll build a product over top
of these flows to shield first-party clients
from the complexity of them.
Now let's turn our attention
to the client credentials grant.
This grant is used to obtain an access token for machine
to machine scenarios and it's much easier to orchestrate.
In this flow, a registered client simply post
their client ID and secret to the token endpoint,
along with the specified grant type.
In the response, the authorization server returns
an access token that can be used to access a microservice.
The OAuth's standard prescribed secure tactics for clients
to obtain tokens that are issued
to access protected resources.
The flexibility of the standard allows IAM platforms
to implement variants of the authorization server
that can meet the security needs of both builders
and consumers of microservices.